restructuring terminus install and update instructions (#9401)
pantheon-systems/documentation: source/content/terminus/02-install.md

integration: [--]
---

> This section provides information on how to install, authenticate, and update Terminus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides information on how to install, authenticate, and update Terminus.
```

## Installing Terminus

> Terminus is available for MacOS and Linux. Windows 10 users can install the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10), and then install Terminus in the Linux shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terminus is available for MacOS and Linux. Windows 10+ users can install the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10), and then install Terminus in the Linux shell.
```

Some Terminus commands use SSH authentication. You may want to [generate and add SSH keys](/ssh-keys/) to your account before you continue.

### Compatible Operating Systems

Terminus has been tested on the following platforms:

- MacOS
- Windows 10 – WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.0
- Ubuntu 20.0 – this would include Ubuntu under Docker or VirtualBox

### Homebrew Package Manager (Recommended for MacOS Users)

The Terminus application is published to [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), a package manager for MacOS.

Run the command below to install Terminus:

```bash{promptUser: user}
brew install pantheon-systems/external/terminus
```

> ### Direct Installation of Standalone Terminus PHAR (Recommended for Ubuntu and WSL Users)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Direct Installation of Standalone PHAR (Recommended for Ubuntu and WSL Users)
```
This heading is long. I think we can at least drop the Terminus.

Installing Terminus with a PHAR (a stand-alone executable PHP archive) is recommended for Ubuntu and Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) users.

> This technique is also viable for MacOS users who prefer not to use Homebrew.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This technique is also viable for MacOS users who are not using Homebrew.
```

Commands that execute remote instructions to tools like Drush or WP-CLI require SSH authentication. Refer to [Generate and Add SSH Keys](/ssh-keys/) to prevent password requests when executing these commands.

## Updating Terminus

<Alert title="Note" type="info">

Terminus uses [Semantic versioning](https://semver.org/). Be sure to fully test compatibility with existing configurations before upgrading to new major releases.

</Alert>

### Homebrew Package Manager (Recommended for MacOS Users)

You can update to the newest version of the [Homebrew installation](/terminus/install#homebrew-installation) by running the command below:

```bash{promptUser: user}

> brew upgrade pantheon-systems/external/terminus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
brew upgrade terminus
```

don't need to define the vendor for upgrade

```

### Update Standalone Terminus PHAR

You can update the [standalone Terminus PHAR](/terminus/install#standalone-terminus-phar) installation to the newest version with the command below.

```bash{promptUser: user}
terminus self:update
```

> ## Installing and Updating Terminus Plugins

Reviewer: If we have a section for installing and updating terminus plugins, i would expect `terminus self:plugin:update` to be in the documentation, but in this case we just link out to the plugin directory.

Reviewer 2: I say delete this section from this page, it's already documented [on another page](https://docs.pantheon.io/terminus/plugins). 

If the steps were different based on terminus installed via PHAR vs homebrew, then it would be helpful to cover plugin installation/updates in those contexts but otherwise it's just adding noise instead of value I think
